doc(operatingsystems-windows-nsclient-05-nrp): update doc CTOR-660 (#4683)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/operatingsystems-windows-nsclient-05-nrpe.md

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> This Monitoring Connector allows to get metrics and statuses collected thanks to the NSClient++ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Monitoring Connector collects metrics and statuses using the NSClient++ 
```

* **OS-Windows-NSClient-05-NRPE-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="OS-Windows-NSClient-05-NRPE-custom" label="OS-Windows-NSClient-05-NRPE-custom">

| Service Alias | Service Template                                | Service Description                                                                                                                                 | Discovery |
|:--------------|:------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------|
| Cpu           | OS-Windows-NSClient05-Cpu-NRPE-custom           | Check the rate of utilization of CPU for the machine. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPUs |           |
| Disks         | OS-Windows-NSClient05-Disks-NRPE-custom         | Check Windows disk usage                                                                                                                            |     X     |

> | Memory        | OS-Windows-NSClient05-Memory-NRPE-custom        | Check the rate of the utilization of memory                                                                                                         |           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Memory        | OS-Windows-NSClient05-Memory-NRPE-custom        | Check the utilization rate of the memory                                                                                                         |           |
```

| Services-Auto | OS-Windows-NSClient05-Services-Auto-NRPE-custom | Check that all auto-start services are running                                                                                                      |           |

> | Swap          | OS-Windows-NSClient05-Swap-NRPE-custom          | Check the rate of the utilization of virtual memory                                                                                                 |           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Swap          | OS-Windows-NSClient05-Swap-NRPE-custom          | Check the utilization  rate of the virtual memory                                                                                                 |           |
```

| total 5s | %    |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Disks" label="Disks">

| Name  | Unit |
|:------|:-----|
| used  | B    |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Eventlog-Generic" label="Eventlog-Generic">

| Name         | Unit  |
|:-------------|:------|
| problemCount | count |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Files-Generic" label="Files-Generic">

| Name  | Unit  |
|:------|:------|
| count | count |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Logfiles-Generic" label="Logfiles-Generic">

| Name             | Unit  |
|:-----------------|:------|
| *tag*\_lines     | count |
| *tag*\_warnings  | count |
| *tag*\_criticals | count |
| *tag*\_unknowns  | count |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Memory" label="Memory">

| Name | Unit |
|:-----|:-----|
| used | B    |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Ntp" label="Ntp">

| Name   | Unit |
|:-------|:-----|
| offset | s    |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Pending-Reboot" label="Pending-Reboot">

| Name          | Unit  |
|:--------------|:------|
| pendingreboot | count |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Process-generic" label="Process-generic">

| Name      | Unit  |
|:----------|:------|
| exec_name | count |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Services-Auto" label="Services-Auto">

> Pas de métrique pour ce service.

Reviewer: FR in EN

> Pas de métrique pour ce service.

Author: ```suggestion
No metric for this service.
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Services-Generic-Name" label="Services-Generic-Name">

> Pas de métrique pour ce service.

Reviewer: FR in EN

> Pas de métrique pour ce service.

Author: ```suggestion
No metric for this service.
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Sessions" label="Sessions">

| Name                                | Unit  |
|:------------------------------------|:------|
| sessions.created.total.count        | count |
| sessions.disconnected.total.count   | count |
| sessions.reconnected.total.count    | count |
| sessions.active.current.count       | count |
| sessions.disconnected.current.count | count |

> > Pour obtenir ce nouveau format de métrique, incluez la valeur **--use-new-perfdata** dans la macro de service **EXTRAOPTIONS**.

Reviewer: FR in EN

> > Pour obtenir ce nouveau format de métrique, incluez la valeur **--use-new-perfdata** dans la macro de service **EXTRAOPTIONS**.

Author: ```suggestion
> To obtain this new metric format, include the value **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.
```

### Centreon NSClient++

> To monitor an *Windows* through NRPE, install the Centreon packaged version 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor a *Windows* server through NRPE, install the Centreon packaged version 
```

<TabItem value="CentOS 7" label="CentOS 7">

```bash
yum install centreon-pack-operatingsystems-windows-nsclient-05-nrpe
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. Whatever the license type (*online* or *offline*), install the **Windows NSClient API** connector through
the **Configuration > Monitoring Connectors Manager** menu.

### Plugin

Use the commands below according to your operating system's package manager:

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8">

```bash
dnf install nagios-plugins-nrpe
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9">

```bash
dnf install nagios-plugins-nrpe
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Debian 11 & 12" label="Debian 11 & 12">

```bash
apt install nagios-nrpe-plugin
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="CentOS 7" label="CentOS 7">

```bash
dnf install nagios-plugins-nrpe
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Using the monitoring connector

### Using a host template provided by the connector

1. Log into Centreon and add a new host through **Configuration > Hosts**.
2. Fill the **Name**, **Alias** & **IP Address/DNS** fields according to your ressource settings.

> 3. Apply the **OS-Windows-NSClient-05-Restapi-custom** template to the host. A list of macros appears. Macros allow you to define how the connector will connect to the resource, and to customize the connector's behavior.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Apply the **OS-Windows-NSClient-05-NRPE-custom** template to the host. A list of macros appears. Macros allow you to define how the connector will connect to the resource, and to customize the connector's behavior.
```

4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory.

| Macro            | Description                                                                                                                      | Default value        | Mandatory |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------|:---------:|

> | NRPECLIENT       | Name of the plugin to use to dialog with the NRPE3 daemon                                                                        | check_centreon_nrpe3 |           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NRPECLIENT       | Name of the plugin to use to talk with the NRPE3 daemon                                                                        | check_centreon_nrpe3 |           |
```

> | NRPEPORT         | TCP port the NRPE3 daemon is listening to                                                                                        | 5666                 |           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NRPEPORT         | TCP port the NRPE3 daemon is listening on                                                                                        | 5666                 |           |
```

### Using a service template provided by the connector

1. If you have used a host template and checked **Create Services linked to the Template too**, the services linked to the template have been created automatically, using the corresponding service templates. Otherwise, [create manually the services you want](/docs/monitoring/basic-objects/services) and apply a service template to them.
2. Fill in the macros you want (e.g. to change the thresholds for the alerts). Some macros are mandatory (see the table below).

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Active-Sessions" label="Active-Sessions">

| Macro        | Description                                                                                                                    | Default value                        | Mandatory |
|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|:---------:|
| COUNTERNAME  | Performance counter to check                                                                                                   | \\Terminal Services\\Active Sessions |           |

> | WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | none                                 |           |

Reviewer: unclear

Author: Nsclient description

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | none                                 |           |

Reviewer: unclear (same in FR, I think)

Author: Nsclient description

| EXTRAOPTIONS                 | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (E.g. a --verbose flag). All options are listed [here](#available-options)                              |               |           |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Counter-Generic" label="Counter-Generic">

| Macro        | Description                                                                                                                    | Default value | Mandatory |
|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------|:---------:|
| COUNTERNAME  | Performance counter to check                                                                                                   |               |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | none          |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | none          |           |

Reviewer: same

Author: Nsclient description

| EXTRAOPTIONS | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (E.g. a --verbose flag). All options are listed [here](#available-options) |               |           |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Cpu" label="Cpu">

| Macro        | Description                                                                                                                    | Default value             | Mandatory |
|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------|:---------:|
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state                                                                       | time = '5m' and load > 80 |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state                                                                      | time = '5m' and load > 80 |           |

Reviewer: same

Author: Nsclient description

|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------|:---------:|
| DRIVE        | The drives to check.                                                                                                           | *                                            |           |
| PERFCONFIG   | Performance data generation configuration                                                                                      | used(unit:B)used %(ignored:true)             |           |
| FILTER       | Filter which marks interesting items.                                                                                          | type = 'fixed' and name not regexp '.*yst.*' |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | total_used>80%                               |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | total_used>90%                               |           |

Reviewer: same

Author: Nsclient description

| FILE         | The logfile name                                                                                                               |                                                  |           |
| FILTER       | Filter which marks interesting items.                                                                                          | written > -60m and level in ('error', 'warning') |           |
| TOPSYNTAX    | The top level syntax string                                                                                                    | $\{status}: $\{count} $\{problem_list}           |           |
| DETAILSYNTAX | Detail level syntax                                                                                                            | $\{source} $\{id}                                |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | count>0                                          |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | count>5                                          |           |

Reviewer: same

Author: Nsclient description

| PATTERN      | The pattern of files to search for (works like a filter but is faster and can be combined with a filter)                       |                                                                  |           |
| TOPSYNTAX    | The top level syntax string                                                                                                    | $\{status}: $\{problem_count}/$\{count} files ($\{problem_list}) |           |
| DETAILSYNTAX | Detail level syntax                                                                                                            | $\{name}                                                         |           |
| FILTER       | Filter which marks interesting items.                                                                                          |                                                                  |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      |                                                                  |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     |                                                                  |           |

Reviewer: same

Author: Nsclient description

| EXTRAOPTIONS | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (E.g. a --verbose flag). All options are listed [here](#available-options) | --arg=show-all                                                   |           |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Logfiles-Generic" label="Logfiles-Generic">

| Macro    | Description                                                | Default value | Mandatory |
|:-------- |:-----------------------------------------------------------|:--------------|:---------:|
| LOGFILE  | Logfile path                                               |               |     X     |
| TAG      | Tag to use in output and perfdata                          |               |           |
| CRITICAL | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state. |               |           |

> | WARNING  | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.  |               |           |

Reviewer: same

Author: Nsclient description

|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------|:---------:|
| PERFCONFIG   | Performance data generation configuration                                                                                      | used(unit:B)%(ignored:true)                        |           |
| DETAILSYNTAX | Detail level syntax                                                                                                            | $%(type) free: %(free) used: %(used) size: %(size) |           |
| FILTER       | Filter which marks interesting items.                                                                                          | type = 'physical'                                  |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | used > 80%                                         |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | used > 90%                                         |           |

Reviewer: same

Author: Nsclient description

|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------|:---------:|
| PROCESS      | The service to check, set this to * to check all services                                                                      |                              |           |
| TOPSYNTAX    | The top level syntax string                                                                                                    | $\{status}: $\{problem_list} |           |
| DETAILSYNTAX | Detail level syntax                                                                                                            | $\{exe}=$\{state}            |           |
| FILTER       | Filter which marks interesting items.                                                                                          | none                         |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | none                         |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | none                         |           |

Reviewer: again

Author: Nsclient description

| EXCLUDE2     | A list of services to ignore (mainly useful in combination with service=*)                                                     |                                        |           |
| SERVICE      | The service to check, set this to * to check all services                                                                      | *                                      |           |
| TOPSYNTAX    | The top level syntax string                                                                                                    | $\{problem_list}                       |           |
| DETAILSYNTAX | Detail level syntax                                                                                                            | $\{name}=$\{state} ($\{start_type})    |           |
| FILTER       | Filter which marks interesting items.                                                                                          | start_type = 'auto' and is_trigger = 0 |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | not state_is_perfect()                 |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | not state_is_ok()                      |           |

Reviewer: same again

Author: Nsclient description

| OK           | Filter which marks items which generates an ok state                                                                           | state_is_ok()                       |           |
| SERVICE      | The service to check, set this to * to check all services                                                                      | $\{name}=$\{state} ($\{start_type}) |           |
| TOPSYNTAX    | The top level syntax string                                                                                                    | $\{problem_list}                    |           |
| DETAILSYNTAX | Detail level syntax                                                                                                            | $\{name}=$\{state} ($\{start_type}) |           |
| FILTER       | Filter which marks interesting items.                                                                                          | none                                |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | none                                |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | not state_is_ok()                   |           |

Reviewer: another one

Author: Nsclient description

|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------|:---------:|
| PERFCONFIG   | Performance data generation configuration                                                                                      | *(prefix:'used_')*(unit:B)%(ignored:true) |           |
| DETAILSYNTAX | Detail level syntax                                                                                                            | $$\{name} $\{used} ($\{size})             |           |
| FILTER       | Filter which marks interesting items.                                                                                          | size > 0 and name = 'total'               |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | none                                      |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | used > 0                                  |           |

Reviewer: yet another one

Author: Nsclient description

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Task-Generic" label="Task-Generic">

| Macro        | Description                                                                                                                    | Default value                                           | Mandatory |
|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|:---------:|
| PERFCONFIG   | Performance data generation configuration                                                                                      | *(ignored:true)                                         |           |
| FILTER       | Filter which marks interesting items.                                                                                          | enabled eq 1 and has_run eq 1                           |           |
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | task_status = 'running' and most_recent_run_time < -60m |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | task_status not in ('running') and exit_code > 0        |           |

Reviewer: !

Author: Nsclient description

| WARNINGPENDINGUPDATES  | Thresholds                                                                                                                     |                             |           |
| CRITICALPENDINGUPDATES | Thresholds                                                                                                                     |                             |           |
| EXTRAOPTIONS           | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (E.g. a --verbose flag). All options are listed [here](#available-options) | --verbose --display-updates |           |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Uptime" label="Uptime">

| Macro        | Description                                                                                                                    | Default value | Mandatory |
|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------|:---------:|
| WARNING      | Filter which marks items which generates a warning state.                                                                      | none          |           |

> | CRITICAL     | Filter which marks items which generates a critical state.                                                                     | none          |           |

Reviewer: !!

Author: Nsclient description
